Well, hey everybody, I'm Nick Pettit, and
today's workshop is introduction
to Unity for web developers.
In today's workshop,
we're going to be creating a video
game that we're going to
deploy to the web using WebGL.
And I'll get to the agenda for
today in just a second,
but first I wanted to talk
a little bit about my journey and
how I got into game development.
I've been programming for
about 20 years now.
And I first got into it
by just making websites,
actually in front page,
if anyone remembers what that is.
And so I was making websites,
learning about programming.
I got into PHP and Ruby on Rails.
And I was building websites for my friends
and doing it on a contractual basis.
And I started making web applications for
myself and for
a couple of different
businesses I was running.
And basically,
I got into the education side of it.
I was very passionate about sharing
the knowledge that I had learned, and
I wanted to give back to the community
in the same way that I had received so
much from the community.
So I did get into teaching it
at an online school called
Treehouse, so I did that for
about ten years.
And then during that time,
I started getting interested in VR and
AR, and I kinda saw the trend
that was happening there and
it was just a very
fascinating space to me.
I wanted to just learn more about how to
get into that and how to approach it.
And at the time,
it really was pretty difficult to do stuff
with VR in a web environment, but
with a game engine like Unity,
it was very accessible,
it was very democratized.
And so I started getting into
the Unity game engine and
just teaching myself learning
through YouTube videos.
And of course, Unity's website
has tons of great resources for
learning how to create
games with their engine.
And at this point, I've been making
games for about eight years,
and now I make games for
a living at a company called Buck.
They're a global creative company
that brings brand stories and
experiences to life through art,
design, and technology.
So they do lots of high key
advertisements, Super Bowl commercials,
that kind of thing.
And they wanted to create games,
they wanted to get into original IP.
So unfortunately, I can't really share
a whole lot about what we've been up to,
but I can show you some of the past
projects that I've worked on.
One in particular that I'm very
proud of is called Neptune Flux,
it's a deep sea adventure game.
And that came out in, well,
it came out in 2016 for
Steam and
I released it on the Vive and Rift.
It was also playable without a VR headset.
And then I also released it for
PlayStation VR.
And that was very exciting.
I'd never made a console game before,
I'd never worked on a triple A team or
anything like that, I was just
doing this all from my apartment.
[LAUGH] And it was kind of not
something I would recommend now.
Looking back,
that was a very big undertaking and
certainly not something I regret,
but I learned a lot from it.
But I mean, yeah,
I've been making games for
about eight years and
I have done all sorts of things.
I executed on contracts for AR projects,
I've made Sim and training demos.
And we'll get into more of the
applications of Unity in a just sec, but
let's talk about what we're
going to be doing today.
So we are going to make a game.
So at the end of this, we'll have
a game that we can deploy to WebGL.
We'll get started just by
learning how to install Unity.
You may have Unity installed already, but
it's good to know just kind of the ins and
outs of that,
because it is somewhat of an involved
installation process or it can be.
And then we'll take a brief tour of
the Unity interface just to kinda get
familiar with all of its
rearrangeable panels and windows.
And then we'll learn about scenes,
GameObjects, and
components and
how those all relate to one another.
We'll use C# to make a physics sandbox,
and then we'll add player input to that,
so that we can actually interact
with it and move around.
And then we'll create what's
called a game manager script.
And so
that will kind of be like the game loop,
where all of the business logic happens.
Then we'll add some UI to the game, so
that all of those numbers that we're
tracking in the game manager can
actually be exposed to the player.
And we'll add more complex
behavior on top of that.
So we'll start kind of
layering more components
that will drive some
more emergent behavior.
And then we'll make the game look better,
because we're gonna start out with
just kind of gray spheres and cubes.
And then we'll add materials and
lighting and
post-processing on top of that
to make things look better.
And then we will deploy the game
to a web browser using WebGL,
and I think you'll find that is
surprisingly easy to do in Unity.
So first, I just wanna show you what
we're actually going to be creating.
So I'll jump here, and
you can play this right now,
it's at bit.ly/fm for
frontendmasters-unity.
So here's the Unity splash screen.
And it says,
collect more cubes than your opponent.
Press SPACE to Start.
So if I hit the spacebar,
the game will start, and
I can use the WASD keys or the arrow
keys to move this gold sphere around and
try to collect these little purple orbs.
And you'll see that I
have an opponent there,
the blue sphere that is
also rolling around.
It's really using some very simple logic,
but
it actually has the appearance of
having some amount of intelligence,
where it's trying to collect
these faster than I can.
You'll see that there's UI up at the top,
so it's keeping score of how many of these
I've collected and
how many the opponent has collected.
And there's also a timer that
starts at 60 seconds and
ticks down as the game moves forward.
And you'll see that there's
other nice little features,
like if I roll off the side here,
it will actually respawn.
And when the timer runs out,
there'll be a game over screen.
And I lost.
if I had collected more, I would have won,
and of course, if it was a tie,
it would say it's a tie.
And then you can hit
the spacebar to start again, and
then it'll reset the clock and
reset the scores.
And there's other cool things
that we can do with this.
We can adjust the speeds that
you see here to potentially
make it a little easier or
even more difficult.
But yeah, so this is what we're
going to be building today.